## 2007年度

〔Ⅱ〕 次の英文の内容と合致するものを下の11～20の中から四つ選び、その番号を記入せよ。

The four young men who became world famous as the Beatles all had difficult childhoods. For a start, they were all born in Liverpool during the Second World War. Situated on the north-west coast of Britain, Liverpool was one of the country’s major ports and so it was frequently bombed by German airplanes. John Lennon was actually born in the middle of an air raid on 9 October 1940. His aunt Mimi later remembered being terrified as she ran through the fire and smoke to the hospital to see her sister and her new baby. Ringo Starr, whose real name was Richard Starkey (he later got the nickname “Ringo” because of the rings he wore), also experienced air raids as an infant. By the time Paul McCartney was born on 18 June 1942 and George Harrison on 25 February 1943, these nightly bombing raids had stopped, but wartime life remained dangerous and hard, with shortages of food, fuel and clothes.

Their family circumstances were, in different ways, also difficult. Ringo’s parents had separated before he was born, and he lived in a rough neighbourhood of Liverpool with his mother, who worked in a bar. He suffered from ill health during his childhood, spending three years in hospital, which interrupted his education. John’s mother Julia had also separated from his father, and he lived with his aunt Mimi, while Julia lived her own free life. Despite this, John loved his mother and was deeply upset when she was knocked down and killed by a speeding car when he was seventeen. Paul and George both came from warm, loving families, but life was not easy for them either. Paul’s father did not earn much money and the family was mainly supported by his mother’s earnings as a nurse, but she died of cancer when Paul was only fourteen. George’s father supported a wife and four children, of whom George was the youngest, on his low bus driver’s income.

John and Paul were brought together by their love of rock and roll, the new, high-energy American music of Elvis Presley, Bill Haley, Little Richard and Buddy Holly. After his mother’s death, Paul had comforted himself by concentrating on playing the guitar given him by his father. His brother remembered that Paul “didn’t have time to eat or think about anything else. He played it in the toilet, in the bath, everywhere.” John and Paul first met on 6 July 1957, when Paul attended a garden party at which John was playing with his group, the Quarry Men. “I remember I was impressed,” Paul said later. “I thought, ‘Wow he’s good!’” John was so impressed by Paul’s guitar playing and superb memory for the words of songs that he invited him to join his group. John’s mother’s death a year later strengthened their friendship. “That was one of the things that brought John and me very close together,” Paul recalled. “We’d both lost our mothers.” Young men in 1950s Britain were not brought up to express their emotions openly, so they did not talk about their sorrow, but instead communicated their feelings through their music.

A few months after Paul joined the Quarry Men, George Harrison also became a member. Paul and George had already been friends for two years, brought together by their passion for guitar playing. John was at first doubtful about George joining the group, since he was only fourteen years old, but he was the only one of the three who could play guitar solos and so he was recruited as their lead guitarist.

A few months later the Quarry Men made a cheap private recording of Buddy Holly’s song “That’ll Be the Day.” The boys sound young and energetic on this recording, but no one could have known in 1958 that these three young men — together with Ringo Starr, who would join them in 1962, after they had changed their name to the Beatles — would within a few short years achieve world fame as the greatest popular music group the world has ever seen.

注 air raid 空爆
　 solo ソロ，独奏

11. Mimi was very frightened when she visited her sister Julia in hospital after Julia had given birth to John Lennon during an attack on Liverpool by German airplanes.
12. Mrs Starkey gave her son Richard the nickname “Ringo” because she hoped he would become a rock and roll star in the future.
13. When John, Paul and George were children in Liverpool during the war there were many problems, such as lack of things to eat and wear.
14. John and Ringo’s parents had separated and so both boys lived alone with their mothers.
15. John’s mother was killed in an accident while driving too fast in her car.
16. Because he didn’t have much time to eat or think about anything due to his mother’s death, Paul played his guitar in the toilet and the bath.
17. Since they had both lost their mothers, John and Paul became even closer friends and found comfort in talking about it with each other.
18. Paul and George were already friends before Paul met John.
19. John wondered whether George was too young to become a member of the group, but he was asked to join because of his skill as a guitarist.
20. When the Quarry Men wrote and recorded their own song in 1958, nobody could have imagined that they would become world famous one day.
