## 2008年度

〔Ⅱ〕 次の英文の内容と合致するものを下の11～20の中から四つ選び、その番号を記入せよ。

On July 15, people in Paris will wake up to discover thousands of low-cost rental bicycles at hundreds of high-tech bicycle stations scattered throughout the city, an ambitious program to cut traffic, reduce pollution, improve parking and make the city a greener, quieter, more relaxed place to live.

By the end of the year, city officials say, there should be 20,600 bicycles at 1,450 stations — or about one station every 250 meters across the entire city. Based on experience elsewhere — particularly in Lyon, France’s third-largest city, which launched a similar system two years ago — regular users of the bicycles will ride them almost for free.

“It has completely transformed the landscape of Lyon — everywhere you see people on the bicycles,” said Jean-Louis Touraine, the city’s deputy mayor. The program was meant “not just to modify the balance between the modes of transportation and reduce air pollution, but also to modify the image of the city and to have a city where humans occupy a larger space.”

The mayor of Paris, Bertrand Delanok, has the same aim, said his assistant, Jean-Luc Dumesnil: “We think it could change Paris’s image — make it quieter, less polluted, with a nicer atmosphere, a better way of life.” But there is a practical side, too, Dumesnil said. A recent study compared different trips in the city with a car, bicycle, taxi and walking, and the bicycles were always the fastest.

The Lyon rental bicycles, with their clearly distinguishable silver frame, red rear-wheel guard, basket and bell, can also be among the cheapest ways to travel, because the first half-hour is free, and most trips are shorter than that. Anthonin Darbon, director of Cyclocity, the company that operates Lyon’s program and won the contract to start up and run the one in Paris, said 95 percent of the roughly 20,000 daily rental bicycle journeys in Lyon are free because of their length. “It’s faster than the bus or subway, it’s good exercise and it’s almost free,” said Vianney Paquet, 19, who is studying law in Lyon. Paquet said that he uses the rental bicycles four or five times a day and pays about $13 a year.

The Cyclocity concept developed from “bicycle-sharing” ideas that were tried in Europe in the 1960s and 1970s, usually modeled on Amsterdam’s famous “white bicycle” plan, in which volunteers repaired scores of bicycles, painted them white, and left them on the streets for anyone to use for free. But in the end, the bicycles were stolen and became too damaged to ride.

Later people experimented with designs and developed a tougher bicycle, along with a rental system to ensure safe return of the bicycles: each rider must leave a credit card or deposit of about $195, along with personal information. In Lyon, about 10 percent of the bicycles are stolen each year, but many are later recovered, Darbon said. And to encourage people to return bicycles quickly, rental rates rise the longer the bicycles are out. In Paris, for instance, renting a bicycle will be free for the first 30 minutes, $1.30 for the next 30 minutes, $2.60 for the third half-hour, and $5.20 for the fourth half-hour of use and every 30 minutes after that. That makes the cost of a two-hour rental about $9.10.

In Lyon, according to deputy mayor Touraine, the city’s 3,000 rental bicycles have traveled about 15 million km since the program started in May 2005, saving an estimated 3,000 tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) from being discharged into the air.

注 rental 賃貸; 賃貸の
　 rear-wheel guard 後輪泥よけ

11. In Paris there will be rental bicycles that people can use for free no matter how long they use them.
12. In Paris they are planning to have a larger number of bicycle stations than that of bicycles.
13. The city of Lyon followed Paris in introducing the rental bicycle program.
14. The rental bicycle program of Lyon has brought about a big change, making the city look completely different from what it did.
15. The rental bicycle scheme of Paris is aimed at making the traffic situation better as well as improving the overall quality of life.
16. According to a study, bicycles are the fastest means of transportation in Paris.
17. Ninety-five percent of the rental bicycle journeys in Lyon last more than 30 minutes.
18. The rental bicycle programs of Lyon and Paris are based on the successful “white bicycle” plan of Amsterdam.
19. If you use a rental bicycle in Paris for one hour, you will have to pay $2.60.
20. In Lyon on average each rental bicycle has prevented a ton of carbon dioxide from being released into the atmosphere.

---
