## 2019年度

〔Ⅱ〕 次の英文の内容と合致するものを下の11～20の中から四つ選び、その番号を記入せよ。

Some people are fortunate enough to see their dreams become reality. Some of them even get to share their dreams with millions of people across the world. Yet even then, their names and faces are often unknown. One of those people is Floyd Norman, age 83. Still an active, working animator, writer, and artist, Floyd Norman has been part of some of the most well-known films of the past 60 years.

Norman grew up in Santa Barbara, California, from the 1930s to the 1950s. Although African Americans in most places in the United States suffered from the effects of racism, Norman says that he experienced none of that in his childhood. “We lived in a Pacific paradise,” he says in one interview. “I didn’t know it at the time, but my experience as a child was probably a good deal different from many, many people. We had access to everything — good schools, concerts, theaters.” In another interview, he added, “I think that shaped me as an artist.”

Like many children, he was imaginative and he expressed his creativity through drawing. He even got into trouble for it. “I think my gift expressed itself in every way possible. When I was a little child, my mother said I used to draw on the walls.” This creativity and a great deal of practice got him his first opportunity when he was still a high-school student. A comic-book artist, Bill Woggon, hired Norman as his assistant for a comic about a fashionable teenage girl. Norman writes on his blog that he began with the simple, boring jobs of drawing the outlines of panels and filling in the backgrounds, then later drawing with ink over the penciled lines, until he began drawing completed comic pages, eventually becoming a professional comic-book artist.

Later, Norman applied to work at Walt Disney Studios. He was not immediately accepted, so he started to attend art school. But at the age of 21, he was hired at Disney Studios to work on the film *Sleeping Beauty*, which was released in 1959. Norman says that, although he realizes today that “the thought never occurred to a lot of young black talent to apply for a job in the film industry,” his childhood in Santa Barbara never caused him to doubt that he could become a Disney animator. He was the first African-American artist to work for Disney.

Except for a short time as an American soldier in Korea, he was at Disney Studios for ten years, contributing to films such as *One Hundred and One Dalmatians* and *The Sword in the Stone*. His skill and determination brought him to the notice of Walt Disney himself, who gave Norman an important position in the last movie of Disney’s life, *The Jungle Book*.

After Walt Disney died in 1966, Norman left Disney Studios and started his own company. He worked on many films for his own and others’ companies, and returned to Disney several times to work on films such as *Robin Hood* and *Mulan*. He also worked for Pixar Studios, adding *Toy Story 2* and *Monsters, Inc.* to his long list of accomplishments. Disney Studios encouraged him to retire at age 65, but he just kept going to work with his wife (who is also a Disney employee) until the studio finally let him have a desk again.

Almost 20 years later, he is still making his dreams come true, for himself and for many others. “When I was a little kid in Santa Barbara,” he says, “sitting on the floor in my grandmother’s house, dreaming of maybe one day working for Walt Disney, and to have that dream come true — I think that’s pretty remarkable.”

注 animator アニメ制作者
　 racism 人種差別

11. Despite his age and lack of fame, Floyd Norman continues to help make movies.
12. Although Norman was African-American, he did not encounter racism in his childhood years.
13. Norman believes that his childhood in Santa Barbara was so peaceful and easy that he could not become a good artist there.
14. Norman did not show much interest in art until his high-school years.
15. Norman started his own comic book about a fashionable teenager, which caught the attention of Walt Disney himself.
16. The first time he applied to work at Disney Studios, Norman was turned down.
17. Norman worked for Disney Studios for ten years, but then he had to go fight in a war.
18. Walt Disney’s final movie was *The Jungle Book*, which Norman played a major role in making.
19. Norman refused to work for Disney Studios again after Walt Disney died.
20. Norman went to work for Pixar Studios after Disney Studios forced him to retire, and he still works for Pixar today.

---
