## 2020年度

〔Ⅱ〕 次の英文の空欄( A )～( F )に入れるのに最も適当なものを下の1～9の中から選び、その番号を記入せよ。

Our present ideas about the motion of bodies date back to Galileo and Newton. Before them people believed Aristotle, who said that the natural state of a body was to be at rest and that it moved ( A ). It followed that a heavy body should fall faster than a light one, because it would have a greater pull toward the earth.

The Aristotelian tradition also held that one could work out all the laws that govern the universe by pure thought: it was not necessary to check by observation. So no one until Galileo bothered to see whether bodies of different weights did in fact fall at different speeds. It is said that Galileo demonstrated that Aristotle’s belief was false by ( B ) of Pisa. The story is almost certainly untrue, but Galileo did do something equivalent: he rolled balls of different weights down a smooth slope. The situation is similar to that of heavy bodies falling vertically, but it is easier to observe because the speeds are smaller. Galileo’s experiments indicated that ( C ) at the same rate, no matter what their weight. For example, if you let go of a ball on a slope that drops by one meter for every ten meters you go along, the ball will be traveling down the slope at a speed of about one meter per second after one second, two meters per second after two seconds, and so on, however heavy the ball. Of course an iron weight would fall faster than a feather, but that is only because a feather is slowed down by air resistance. If you drop two bodies that don’t have much air resistance, such as two different iron weights, ( D ).

Galileo’s discovery was used by Newton as the basis of his laws of motion. In Galileo’s experiments, as a body rolled down the slope it was always acted on by the same force (its weight), and the effect was to make it constantly speed up. This showed that the real effect of a force is always to change the speed of a body, rather than just to set it moving, as was previously thought. It also meant that whenever a body is not acted on by any force, ( E ) at the same speed. This idea was first stated in Newton’s *Principia Mathematica*, published in 1687, and is known as Newton’s first law. What happens to a body when a force does act on it is given by Newton’s second law. This states that the body will accelerate, or increase its speed, at a rate that is proportional to the force. (For example, the acceleration is twice as great if the force is twice as great.) The acceleration is also smaller the greater the mass of the body. A familiar example is provided by a car: the more powerful the engine, the greater the acceleration, but the heavier the car, the smaller the acceleration for the same engine. In addition to his laws of motion, Newton discovered ( F ) of gravity, which states that every body attracts every other body with the force that is proportional to the mass of each body.

注 body 物体
　 accelerate 加速する
　 gravity 引力

[出典 : Hawking, S. (2016). *A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes*. Bantam Books に基づく]

1. they fall at the same rate
2. a falling apple inspired Newton
3. travel at a fixed speed
4. a law to describe the force
5. it will keep on moving in a straight line
6. moving at constant speed
7. the bodies increased their speed
8. dropping weights from the Leaning Tower
9. only if driven by a force

---
