## 2022年度

〔Ⅱ〕 次の英文の内容と合致するものを下の11～20の中から四つ選び、その番号を記入せよ。

The gray wolf is a fierce creature. It has long teeth and powerful jaws, and can chase other animals at more than 35 miles per hour. A typical male weighs about 100 pounds and is more than six feet long, including its tail. Wolves live in packs of up to 30 adults and younger ones. They communicate with one another using facial expressions and the positions of their bodies and tails.

Gray wolves have lived in North America for at least half a million years. The areas where they live once included most of the continental United States. But during the 1800s and early 1900s, wolves were hunted to near extinction. By the 1960s, the US wolf population was limited to a handful of creatures in small corners of the northern Midwest.

Then, in 1973, the Endangered Species Act (ESA) became law. It protects animals at risk of becoming extinct. Gray wolves were one of the first animals placed on the endangered species list. Killing them was illegal, and the US government worked to save and protect them. In a famous example of this effort, starting in 1995, 31 wolves were moved from Canada to Yellowstone National Park, a large area located in the western United States. By 2015, more than 500 gray wolves were living in the Yellowstone area.

Today, the continental US is home to more than 6,000 gray wolves. In some parts of the country, the number of wolves is growing. More than a thousand of them can be found just in the states of Michigan and Wisconsin. But overall, their range is still very limited compared to what it was. Wolves used to live across most of the US. Now they’re found in fewer than a dozen states.

On January 4, 2021, the US government removed gray wolves from the endangered species list. Usually, removing an animal from the list would be cause for celebration. But some people say the animal still needs protection.

Some experts say the goal of the ESA should be to protect an animal until it has gained its original range once more. Others argue that as long as a species is not at risk of extinction, it doesn’t belong on the endangered species list. “The gray wolf has achieved all goals for recovery,” David Bernhardt, a government official, says. According to Bernhardt, the wolf “is neither a threatened nor an endangered species.” As for people who live near wolves, they are concerned that if the wolf population continues to grow, more of their animals, such as cattle and sheep, will be killed by wolves.

Environmental groups criticize the US government for the decision to remove the wolf from the endangered species list. Jason Rylander, who is a member of Defenders of Wildlife, a non-profit organization (NPO) working to save wild animals in North America, worries that without protection, the wolf population will quickly decrease again. Rylander hopes that no matter what, people and wolves can peacefully coexist. His group is promoting ways to make that happen, like using portable wire fences to keep wolves away from cattle fields. For now, protection of nearly all wolves is up to each state. And in fact, voters in the state of Colorado recently approved a plan that would focus on the wolves within its borders.

注 extinction 絶滅
　 Endangered Species Act 絶滅危惧種保護法

11. Gray wolves live in groups, but they hardly communicate with each other.
12. The gray wolf in North America has a history of about five hundred thousand years.
13. In the early 1970s, gray wolves were listed for special protection by the US government.
14. As there were many gray wolves in the Yellowstone National Park area, some of them were transferred to Canada for protection.
15. As of today, gray wolves can be found in almost every state in the US.
16. In 2021, the US government decided that the gray wolves no longer needed special protection by law.
17. Some people, like David Bernhardt, argue that the number of gray wolves has not recovered enough to be removed from the endangered species list.
18. There are people who worry that the lives of their animals will be threatened by wolves.
19. As a way to promote wolves and people living together peacefully, Defenders of Wildlife suggests keeping wolves inside permanent wire fences.
20. None of the states in the US is responsible for the protection of wolves within its borders.

---
