## 2023年度

〔Ⅱ〕 次の英文の内容と合致するものを下の11～20の中から四つ選び、その番号を記入せよ。

When I was a young boy, my Aunt Sally often gave me gifts, especially books, which encouraged me to begin a lifetime of being a reader. Sally traveled a great deal, even to Japan, and I remember that she gave me a beautiful picture book of *Momotaro* as a present after that trip. But one of the most memorable gifts she gave me was for my twelfth birthday: a boxed set of three novels, titled *The Earthsea Trilogy*, by the American author Ursula K. Le Guin.

My teacher had recently read part of the first book to us in class, so I was very excited to receive this gift. *The Earthsea Trilogy* is a fantasy series published between 1968 and 1972, set in a magical world of small rocky islands and huge stretches of ocean. In the first book, *A Wizard of Earthsea*, the main character is named Ged, and as a child he is found to have a talent for magic, so he goes to a fantastic school to learn how to use it. While he is at the school, he becomes arrogant, and tries to use magic that is too powerful for him. As a result, he brings into existence a dangerous shadow which almost kills him. After recovering, he must spend the rest of the novel trying to find the shadow and send it away.

In the next two books, we see an older and wiser Ged trying to heal wounds in society, gently making the world a better place. Ged became a hero to me: someone who would try to learn and understand, then try to help those in need. Improving the world without violent action became something that I admired in stories, more than the usual stories in which heroes are always fighting and killing dark forces.

I sought out more books by Ursula K. Le Guin, and I discovered that she was a very active author. In her lifetime, she published twenty-three novels, plus numerous collections of short stories, poetry, and essays, as well as children’s books and translations she made of other writers’ books. Her books have been translated into many languages, including Japanese, and the stories of Ged were adapted for a Japanese movie: Studio Ghibli’s 2006 *Tales of Earthsea*.

Throughout her career, she always tried to help readers see that imposing one’s will on others, especially through violence, is the worst way to create change in the world. Instead, she tried to show how it is possible to educate and win people over to a better way of doing things. Even her fantasy and science fiction stories were always about our own world and our own hearts, and although they could often be sad, they taught readers to reconsider the message that we often receive from entertainment: that only a few powerful people are important. Her stories, deep down, always say, “*You* are important. Every life is important.” Instead of showing a war between good and evil, she shows people who, if they recognize each other as human, will stop hating each other.

Some of her novels — *The World for World Is Forest*, *The Left Hand of Darkness*, *The Dispossessed* — remain among my favorite books, and I find new things to love about them every time I reread them. And I was overjoyed when, in 1990, Le Guin started publishing more books in the *Earthsea Series*, which now has five novels and one book of short stories. When she died in 2018 at the age of eighty-eight, I felt as if I had lost an aunt, because even though I never met her, she had had as much effect on my life as a real family member. Through her books, she helped me become the person I am today.

注 trilogy 三部作
　 arrogant 傲慢な

11. The writer of this passage received from his aunt a traditional Japanese story translated into English by Ursula K. Le Guin.
12. The writer’s teacher, Ursula K. Le Guin, read her own stories to her students.
13. In *A Wizard of Earthsea*, the main character, Ged, causes harm because he overestimates his magical ability.
14. The main character of the trilogy uses more and more powerful magic to kill demons.
15. The writer admires Ged because, although he is a powerful user of magic, he finds ways to solve problems without becoming physically violent.
16. The stories of Ged became the material for a film made in Japan.
17. The message of Le Guin’s books is that we all need heroes to lead us in a fight against evil.
18. In her stories, Le Guin offers the idea that the most important thing is understanding that we are all people.
19. Le Guin only wrote five novels and a few short stories in her life, but they are good enough to read again and again.
20. The writer’s aunt died in 2018 after writing many books.

---
