## 2024年度

〔Ⅱ〕 次の英文の内容と合致するものを下の11～20の中から四つ選び、その番号を記入せよ。

When we think of Hawaii, most of us probably picture the beautiful ocean, the magnificent beaches, and the green mountains. Of course, there are many more things to attract tourists, such as the wonderful weather, the almost daily sighting of rainbows, and the hotels and shopping in Waikiki. But for one group of people who enjoy a certain ocean sport, there is something in Waikiki that is almost sacred, a must-see when they visit Hawaii: the shining three-meter statue of “the father of modern surfing,” Duke Kahanamoku.

When Duke Kahanamoku was born in 1890, Hawaii was still an independent kingdom. Surfing, a sport in which surfers ride waves while standing on a wooden board, was an important part of the culture of many Pacific Island nations, and was starting to be written about and even practiced in other parts of the world, but it was far from being the well-known sport that it is today. Kahanamoku would become one of the most important people responsible for popularizing surfing around the world.

Kahanamoku’s family had connections to the Hawaiian royal family, and his father was a police officer. This father named his son Duke Paoa Kahinu Mokoe Hulikohola Kahanamoku, and because father and son had the same first name, Duke, his family used one of the child’s middle names and called him Paoa. But outside the family, everyone called him Duke.

He grew up in a big family, and he spent much of his time swimming and surfing at the beaches around Waikiki. When he became a young adult, he was 185 centimeters tall and so strong that he could easily carry around his traditional 4.9-meter, 52-kilogram wooden surfboard. At the age of 21, at an international swimming competition in Honolulu, he broke two world records and tied another world record. The next year, he competed in the Olympics, and won a gold medal and a silver medal for the US men’s swimming team. He went on to compete in several more Olympics and win more medals for swimming.

But he was most famous as a surfer, even though it was not until the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, one hundred years after Duke Kahanamoku proposed the idea, that surfing became an Olympic sport. During that century, the joy of surfing spread across the world, in large part due to the efforts of Kahanamoku. In his lifetime, he participated in international surfing competitions and exhibitions, and he was also known for his friendliness and good nature. He appeared in several films, too, sometimes playing “a Hawaiian boy” or “a native chief,” but he also appeared as himself in a few non-fictional movies about surfing. One day, during his Hollywood period in California, a fishing ship was sinking, and he bravely led some surfers to rescue the crew. Kahanamoku saved eight lives himself, and the others saved four more. He was called a hero for this brave act, and since that event lifeguards — people who help swimmers who are having trouble — began to include surfboards in their rescue equipment.

In 1932, he was elected the chief police officer of Honolulu. In later life he was named the official greeter for the city of Honolulu, welcoming important visitors, and he was also Hawaii’s unofficial ambassador to the world. He not only helped to popularize surfing: until his death at the age of 77, he helped make Hawaii a dream destination, the place that millions hoped they could visit at least once in their lives. His statue in Waikiki, near where he grew up, still warmly greets all visitors with outstretched arms. Today, he is not as famous as he once was, but surfers still remember and visit the statue to thank him.

注 statue 像
　 ambassador 大使

11. The statue of Duke Kahanamoku is more important to people who are interested in surfing than it is to the average tourist.
12. Duke Kahanamoku’s statue is the same height as he was in real life.
13. Before Duke made the sport of surfing popular, it was unknown outside the beaches of Hawaii.
14. Duke Kahanamoku would have been the King of Hawaii if he had not become a surfer.
15. In order to avoid confusion, Duke’s family referred to him by his second name.
16. Duke began to win Olympic medals before he was 21 years old.
17. Duke never won any Olympic medals for surfing.
18. Duke played the role of a native Hawaiian chief in movies that were true stories about surfing.
19. Due to Duke’s action, twelve lives were saved by him and some other surfers, and changes were made to improve rescue efforts.
20. When he was 77 years old, Duke Kahanamoku retired from surfing and devoted his efforts to making Hawaii popular.

---
